# Edge Microvisor Toolkit Contribution Guide

Edge Microvisor Toolkit is open source and always welcomes an active
community to support adding new features, optimizing, and improving security.

There are many areas in which you can contribute, such as:

1. The build infrastructure pipeline.
2. New features and functionality in new or existing microvisor image definitions.
3. Support for new edge platforms.

## New Features

New feature requests should always be made by opening an Architecture Decision Record (ADR)
GitHub issue, regardless of whether you want to contribute directly or just file a request.
To do so, use the [Design Proposal](/design-proposals/design-propsal-template.md) template
and provide as much information as possible. This helps maintainers and stakeholders to
review, better understand, and prioritize the request.

## Contribution Flow

All contributing Pull Requests should target the **3.0-dev branch**, which is used for
development. Periodically, the dev branch is merged to 3.0, the publishing branch for the
project.

Following the [Azure Linux](https://github.com/microsoft/azurelinux/blob/3.0/CONTRIBUTING.md#packages)
scheme for packages, Edge Microvisor Toolkit maintains two directories:
* [SPECS](../../SPECS) - fully supported and published,
* [SPECS-EXTENDED](../../SPECS-EXTENDED) - experimental, if you want to use these packages,
  you will need to [run your own build](./get-started/emt-building-howto.md).

When raising a PR, make sure that:

* The [cgmanifest file](./cgmanifest.json) is up-to-date and alphabetically sorted.
  It is used to record all package sources. To validate it, run:

  ```bash
  .github/workflows/validate-cg-manifest.sh SPECS/<package name>/<package-name>.spec
  ```

* All source files have up-to-date hashes in the *.signatures.json files.
  This hash can be generated by sha256sum or by using a make target:

  ```bash
  cd toolkit
  sudo make input-srpms REBUILD_TOOLS=y SRPM_FILE_SIGNATURE_HANDLING=update
  ```


## Release Cadence

Edge Microvisor Toolkit has a steady and predictable release cadence. Both issues and
feature requests, which are also raised as issues, are evaluated and prioritized to meet one
of the planned releases.

Edge Microvisor Toolkit releases every 6 weeks. Here are the details:

**Every 6 weeks:**

- RPM updates including new RPMs or patches to existing RPMs.
- Exception releases to address critical bugs/CVEs.

**Every 12 weeks:**

- ISO image + RPM release.

**Every quarter:**

- RAW/VHD (+RPMs delta) image release.

## Contribution license

Since Edge Microvisor Toolkit is licensed under the [MIT license](../../LICENSE),
by contributing to the project, you confirm that your contribution is your own, it may legally
be published under the same license, and you grant us the rights to do so.
